## Neighbor Network Analysis: Qi Mu  
This part is associate with the reconstruction of Figure 5 in Blanca et al. 2015 paper. The annotated code can be found in `code/Neighbor_Network` folder. The code is written in R markdown file. The R project and knitted R markdown files are also included. Please note that, knitted R markdown file cannot be viewed properly directly from Github, they have to cloned or downloaded first. The output files are stored in `code/Neighbor_Network/Figure5_Output` folder. Two intermediate files (trimmed individuals and groups `Geno_group_filtered.csv` and pairwise genetic distances `FstMatrix.nxs` are also included in this folder. The R markdown code itself is well annotated, so here I will summarized the meaning of figure 5, reasons I used this method, overall flow, some technical details, and reproducibility of the original paper.   

1. Explanation of Neighbor Network Analysis (Neighbor-Net)  
	Neighbor-Net is first presented in a paper from Bryant and Moulton at *Mol. Biol. Evol.* 2004. It is a distance based method for constructing phylogentic network that is based on the Neighbor-Joining (NJ) algorithm (Bryant and Moulton, 2004). So instead of using sequence data, the Neighor-Net phylogentic network uses genetics distance data. 

2. Genetic distance matrix  
	Genetic distance is a measure of the genetic divergence between species or between populations within a species. In order to construct the Netghbor-Net, we will need the genetic distance matrix computed among each pair of groups. Every group (composite of varied numbers of individuals) will have a distance with every other group, yielding a distance matrix for all pairwised the groups. There are several method to calculate genetic distances. I will introdce two methods that are related to this study.  
	- The fixation index (Fst) is a measure of the population differentiation due to genetic structure. A high Fst value between two populations means the allele fixation is high for each population, that they might have inbreeding for a long time and show low levels of breeding with one another. A low Fst value between two populations means that the allele fixation is low, meaning they have high level of inter-breeding. Fst is the population distance I used in my analysis.  
	- Gst is another common term to measure genetic differentiation. However, there are some drawbacks using Gst based on `Jost 2008 paper`. So instead, the `Blanca et al. 2015` paper used an improved term called true Differentiation estimator (Dest), which can estimate the diversity (genetic distance) among population unbiasedly.  

  
3. The script problem  
	The paper has used custom python scripts for processing and analyzing data. They also wrote a custom python library to compute genetic distance using the algorithm of Dest. The scripts and library were not included in the paper, so I have asked the authors to share them with us. The script they sent us is an integrete script that combined everything that they carried out in this paper, and without much annotations. I have tried to undertand their script for a couple of weeks, and figured out that most of the functions were based on Python 2 (keep running into bugs with Python 3). The script and the library is a complicated system, there were more than 20 individual python scripts, and the variables and packages are all cross-referenced in different scripts. It took about 3-5 steps locate the variables by tracing back several scripts to find the variable, class, or fuction's definitaions. It took me several nights to figure out part of the the variables and functions, and I have stuck at the input file format, which requirs a metadata on the genotype file. I have asked again from the author on the format of input data file, he said he couldn't recall what he did back then. The system was outdated and they have swicthed to a new system after this paper. He said he would run into probelms like I did if he had to redo the analysis. Hence, I decide to not use their python code and instead, finding similar pacckages in R and generate figures close to theirs as much as possible. 

4.  Overall work flow  
	I had moved on to R after the unsuccessful python decoding. Here is the work flow I carried out:  
	
    1) Data processing (tidyverse). The genotype file (`Suppl_Table_1`) is combined with grouping information (`Suppl_Table_2`). Individuals were filtered so that groups with less than 5 individuals were removed, as well as the mixture groups which contained individuals with unspecific grouping information. This step reduced the number of individuals from 950 to 760 and reduced genetic subgroups from 52 to 36.  
    	
    2) Data formatting. Packages `adegenet` and `hierfstat` were used in these steps. To work with the data, we need to convert the data set to a `genind` object using package `adegent`. The `genind` object can then easily be converted into a `hierfstat` (package hierfstat) object. The `genind` is used to store individual genotypes, `hierfstat` is used to estimate hierarchical F-statistics for any number of hierarchical levels using the method described in `Yang, R.C. (1998) Estimating hierarchical F-statistics. Evolution 52(4):950-956`. It also contains functions allowing to test the significance of population differentiation.  
    	
    3) I also calculated and visualized the observed and expected heterozygosity, which was not required to make the figure. But it helps me understand the data better. I observed there was significant differences between expected and observed heterozygosities. The observed heterozygosity is significantly lower than the expected, meaning different groups are quite homogeneous among themselves. I also calculated the Fst based on each locus, this is the fixation index on each locus, not population-wised differentiation Fst.  
    	
    4) Pairwise Fst matrix. This generated the pairwise genetic distance (Fst) across all the loci among different genetic subgroups. The estimation method is based on Nei, M. (1987). This is really the main part of this analysis. Since it calculates genetic distance between every pair of groups across all loci, requires large amount of computations, which took about **35 min** on my computer.  
    	
    5) Convert to nexus file format. In order to use the Fst matrix for neighbor-net building, it has to be in certain format. So I converted the Fst genetic distance matrix into nexus format.  
    	
    6) Final visualization. In this step, I used the interface software SplitsTree4 to generate the final figure, as it was also used by the authors after their custom python scripts. The figure can also be viewed in R, but withour proper packages, the plot does not look informative. So I kept the final results from SplitsTree4. The Fst genetic distance matrix in nexus format was imported to SplitsTree4, and a final figure was produced. Coloring was done in SplitsTree4.  

5. Reproducibility  
	
    1) Technical aspect. Overall the technical aspects regarding to certain computational method was not reproducible. Especially difficult when it comes to the custom scripts. Even though I have the original code, it was almost impossible to reproduce because of minimal annotations, changed version, system alterations. The critial calculation of genetic distance is based on Dest in this paper, using costumed script (library). This library is overall complicated and poorly annotated, it was not developed for publich use. So is was almost impossible to implement by others without spending large amount of time on it. Also, there was no available R package that can calculate the specific Dest they used, so the reproducibility is low in this aspect. However, I understand why they chose to wirte a custom library for Dest, this seems to be the most accurate way of calculating population distance based on literature. The lack of related R package made this difficult so they had to generate custom scripts.It would be great if they could develop this package for public use.
    	
    2) General aspect. Although I could not use their specific parameters to generate the neighbor-net, the figures I produces are similar enough to theirs to draw their conclusions. There might be small parts that differed, but general trends aligned well. The domestication history should be correct. Thus, the overall results were robust.

